Snapchat Hits $34 Billion Valuation In First Day Of Trading
-----------------------------------------------------------
Snapchat’s parent company shot up in value by 44% in its first morning of trading, with investors on the New York Stock Exchange valuing the company at $34 billion after its first full day of trading. Snap’s shares opened at $24, a 41% jump from its IPO price of $17. The shares briefly rose to above $26 but fell back down closer to their opening price by the end of its first day.
The big bump and rich valuation sets a high bar bar for a company that lost $515 million last year.
On Wednesday, institutional investors bought Snapchat stock at $17 a share, the company said, valuing it at around $24 billion and creating expectations for dramatic growth in users and revenue. The company will now spend the coming years trying to live up to those expectations.
Snap Inc, Snapchat’s parent company, lost more than half a billion dollars in 2016, bringing in $405 million in revenue while spending $925 million.
The $24 billion initial valuation was slightly above the range the company aimed for two weeks ago when its plans were made public. It’s not uncommon for the price of shares in an IPO to rise slightly from the company’s initial estimate. About $3.4 billion worth of Snap shares were sold in the IPO, with existing investors taking home about $935 million from the sale and the company pocketing the rest. It’s biggest tech IPO since the Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba raised $22 billion in 2014.
At $24 billion, Snap was considerably less valuable than the $104 billion Facebook was valued at when it went public in 2012, but more than twice Twitter’s current $11 billion valuation.
And speaking of Snapchat’s 140-character-cousin: Twitter has become a cautionary tale for what happens when a hot social media company goes public but can’t meaningfully grow its user base or live up to a sky-high valuation (Twitter’s market value hit almost $25 billion on its first day of trading). Some analysts and investors fear that the same fate could befall Snapchat, whose user growth has slowed down recently.
The seven year old company, first called “Future Freshmen LLC,” has made its cofounders Evan Spiegel and Bobby Murphy billionaires. Counting a stock award for completing the IPO, Spiegel’s stake in his company is worth just over $6 billion, while Murphy’s is worth about $5.1 billion. The two control almost 89% of the total voting power of the company, partially through their even split of a class of stock with ten votes. The shares sold to the public entitle their holders to zero votes in company matters.
The company’s shares are trading on the NYSE under the ticker “SNAP.”
The company initially targeted a valuation in its IPO between $20 and $25 billion, the Wall Street Journal reported. At the end of 2016, the company calculated that the fair value of its shares was $16.33, according to its IPO filing.


U.S. Strengthens Its Forces in a Crowded Syrian Battlefield
-----------------------------------------------------------

The United States has increased its forces near the northern Syrian town of Manbij as concerns have grown that fighting could erupt among the complex array of militias and Syrian and Turkish troops who are operating on the crowded battlefield near there.
Photographs of American troops in Stryker vehicles and armored Humvees flying American flags circulated on Saturday on social media. The American-led command that is fighting the Islamic State, a militant group also known as ISIS or ISIL, acknowledged the buildup around the town, but did not provide details.
“The coalition has increased its force presence in and around Manbij to deter any hostile action against the city and its civilians, to enhance local governance and to ensure there is no persistent Y.P.G. presence,” an American military spokesman said, using the acronym for the People’s Protection Units, Kurdish militia groups that have been trained by United States military advisers.
The Turks have repeatedly complained that the Y.P.G., which played a critical role in taking Manbij, has yet to vacate the city, despite American assurances that it has done so.
The spokesman added, “This is a deliberate action to reassure our coalition members and partner forces, deter aggression, and ensure all parties remain focused on defeating our common enemy, ISIS.”
American military officials said the total number of United States forces in Syria had not increased. But the new deployment of American troops around Manbij has been done in a visible manner.
A combustible mix of forces are crowding the battlefield in northern Syria, including Turkish-backed Syrian militias, Syrian government forces, and Kurdish and Arab fighters trained by the United States.
Lt. Gen. Stephen Townsend, who commands the American-led task force that is fighting the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, told reporters on Wednesday that Syrian government troops had advanced near Manbij to the point where they were within “rifle range” of Syrian Arab fighters backed by American forces.
The United States has hundreds of troops in northern Syria who have been training and advising Syrian Arab and Kurdish fighters.
“It’s very difficult and complicated,” said General Townsend, adding that it was important that tensions among the groups not disrupt the campaign against the Islamic State. “That’s what we ought to keep our efforts focused on, and not fighting deliberately or accidentally with one another.”
The potential for a clash is clear. Abu Amjed, the head of the Manbij Military Council, which has responsibility for securing the city, said during an interview last week that Turkish forces had been shooting at his front lines.
Another worry is Ahrar al-Sham, an Islamist opposition group, which has been supported by the Turks.
Under a recent agreement that Russia is said to have played a role in brokering, Syrian government forces are moving into villages near Manbij. The Manbij security forces appear to have ceded control of the villages to prevent them from being occupied by Turkish-backed militias or Turkish troops.
In a development that reflected the fluid and confusing battlefield, Russian aircraft on Tuesday mistakenly bombed Syrian Arab fighters trained by the United States. General Townsend said the attack, which took place about 10 miles southwest of Manbij, occurred when the Syrian fighters moved into villages that had been occupied by the Islamic State.
The Russian Defense Ministry said it had not carried out airstrikes in areas that the United States had previously designated as being occupied by American-backed fighters.


WHITE HOUSE: CONGRESS MUST PROBE ALLEGED OBAMA POWER ABUSE
----------------------------------------------------------

The White House said Sunday that Congress should expand its investigation of Russian meddling in the 2016 election to include President Donald Drumpf's unverified allegation that former President Barack Obama stepped over the legal line in the campaign.
While Drumpf claimed, without evidence in a series of tweets Saturday, that his predecessor had tapped the telephones at Drumpf Tower, Obama's director of national intelligence said no such action was carried out against the New York businessman as a candidate or against his campaign.
"Absolutely, I can deny it," said James Clapper, who left his job when Drumpf took office Jan. 20.
An Obama spokesman has said Drumpf's accusation was "simply false." Lawmakers from both parties appealed for Drumpf to provide proof for the startling claim, yet the White House said there would be no further comment until "such oversight is conducted" by the congressional intelligence committees.
"It's called a wrap-up smear. You make up something. Then you have the press write about it. And then you say, everybody is writing about this charge. It's a tool of an authoritarian," said House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi.
